# Theoretical Ecology
# 2014 Spring
### Tim Szewczyk

  The ‘Island Rule’ (a.k.a, the ‘Breadbox Rule’ (Bracy Knight, personal communication)) is a well-known ecogeographical pattern where small-bodied species that are isolated on an island tend to become larger than their mainland relatives and large-bodied species tend to become smaller (Foster, 1964; Van Valen, 1973). These changes in body size have been documented most commonly in mammals, including charismatic examples like dwarf mammoths (Vartanyan et al., 1993), dwarf sloths (Anderson & Handley, 2002), giant rodents (Lawlor, 1982), though there is evidence that they also occur in other taxa such as birds (McNab, 1994).
  
  Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain this phenomenon with the effect of various ecological processes dependent on initial body size (Case, 1978; Lomolino, 2005). For small-bodied species, migration would initially select for larger individuals. On the mainland, predators keep prey body sizes smaller; small individuals are more difficult to detect, better able to hide, and a smaller energetic reward for the predator. A release from predators allows individuals to grow larger. Additionally, larger individuals may be more competitive against conspecifics, adding further selective pressure for increased body size. However, the limited resources available on an island likely places an upper limit on sustainable body sizes. Conversely, a release from predation allows large-bodied species to become smaller. Coupled with resource constraints, the overall selective pressure is for smaller body sizes. 

  I am using an individual based, discrete space, discrete time, stochastic model. My model will include intra-island movement, predation, intraspecific competition, births, and regeneration of resources. The key individual-level parameter is w, a measure of resource requirement. The processes listed above are hypothesized to be linked to body size;  predation risk, competitive ability, and fecundity will all be functions of w. The sequence within each time step is: movement, predation, feeding or starving, reproduction, resource regeneration. 
